# Taming the Rubik's Cube or How I met Group Theory

Recently I've read the book Cubed written by Erno Rubik (the inventor of the cube), and this book rekindled my love for the Cube. The book details the process of invention and searches for reasons to explain its popularity. The argument put forth, with which I agree, is that it is not a coincidence that the Rubik's Cube became widely known around the world. There something universal, almost magical about it, and it is full of contrast and contradicitons: simplicity vs complexity, pleasure vs frustration.

The game itself is easy to understand, intuitive - there is no need for an instruction manual. A child and an adult can both understand the mechanics and the goal wihtin 3 seconds of holding the cube and playing with it. Nevertheles it is a challenging puzzle, even just after a couple of rotations our minds cannot follow the patterns and we can get lost, unable to find our way back to the unscrabled state. It is frustrating, because the difficulty of the puzzle is not evident from its simple, aesthetically pleasing appearance. The cube evokes emotions, as it is not what we expect. And we, as humans, are naturally curious and drawn to these types of challenges, we want to be able to understand its misteries and be able to tame the puzzle. That is what we will explore in this article.

No wonder, that the Rubik's Cube became a cultural symbol, a symbol of intelligence and problem solving. It brought on a revolution in edutainment (education + entertainment) by offering fun ways to introduce mathematical concepts to kids. And in the process it made studying, thinking about problems cool again. I could even go as far as to say, that the Rubik's Cube gave us a universal value system on which we can all agree. As somehow, deep down, we can all agree that solving a scrabled cube is a good thing, being able to understand and solve complex puzzles is a useful skill in life, and in it is worth investing time to learn these skills.

*Rubik's Cube made the world a better place*
